#Kubernetes Engine: Qwik Start
30 minutes
1 Credit
GSP100
Google Cloud Self-Paced Labs

Overview
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) provides a managed environment for deploying, managing, and scaling your containerized applications using Google infrastructure. The Kubernetes Engine environment consists of multiple machines (specifically Compute Engine instances) grouped together to form a container cluster. In this lab, you get hands on practice with container creation and application deployment with GKE.

Cluster orchestration with Kubernetes Engine
Kubernetes Engine clusters are powered by the Kubernetes open source cluster management system. Kubernetes provides the mechanisms through which you interact with your container cluster. You use Kubernetes commands and resources to deploy and manage your applications, perform administration tasks and set policies, and monitor the health of your deployed workloads.

Kubernetes draws on the same design principles that run popular Google services and provides the same benefits: automatic management, monitoring and liveness probes for application containers, automatic scaling, rolling updates, and more. When you run your applications on a container cluster, you're using technology based on Google's 10+ years of experience running production workloads in containers.

Kubernetes on Google Cloud
When you run a Kubernetes Engine cluster, you also gain the benefit of advanced cluster management features that Google Cloud provides. These include:

Load-balancing for Compute Engine instances.
Node Pools to designate subsets of nodes within a cluster for additional flexibility.
Automatic scaling of your cluster's node instance count.
Automatic upgrades for your cluster's node software.
Node auto-repair to maintain node health and availability.
Logging and Monitoring with Cloud Monitoring for visibility into your cluster.
Now that you have a basic understanding of Kubernetes, you learn how to deploy a containerized application with Kubernetes Engine in less than 30 minutes. Scroll down and follow the steps below to get your lab environment set up.

Join Qwiklabs to read the rest of this lab...and more!
Get temporary access to the Google Cloud Console.
Over 200 labs from beginner to advanced levels.
Bite-sized so you can learn at your own pace.
